I would vote for Bernie Sanders
hypothetically but I ain't gonna live a
lie I ain't gonna lie to you and when
Bernie Sanders tells a lie I'm not gonna
accept that lie and say like okay now
I'm gonna live this lie I made up my
mind of that a long time ago when I was
a Buddhist when I was a part of the
Buddhist faith I didn't live a lie I'm
not gonna pretend that ghosts and demons
exist
or that when other people see ghosts and
demons that they're not hallucinating no
I'm not gonna lie about scientific
research on meditation I'm not gonna lie
about what it says about slavery in the
ancient religious texts I ain't living a
lie and today still a little bit
involved with veganism as a political
movement I don't lie about that either
okay so I would vote for Bernie Sanders
hypothetically not living a lie why is
it today
that both Bernie Sanders and Andrew yang
lie about Amazon and Amazon paying
corporate taxes when I first thought
about putting a video together in this I
first started doing the research I was
like oh well it must be that the
mainstream media really failed to
address this this misconception about I
start Koopaling around Wall Street
journal/nbc Forbes magazine Bloomberg
seemingly every major economic and news
organization in the world already has
debunked the propaganda claim made by
Bernie Sanders about Amazon and Google
it Bernie Sanders is still tone insane
why I did a search for Bernie Sanders
Amazon taxes and then I limited the
results to this month times he's used
this live within the last 30 days he's
still saying he's still out there
preparing it quote Amazon's less than
zero tax rate is unacceptable America me
to see amazon's tax returns okay and at
andrew yang as you know he has been
making use of the same false claims
about amazon's tax returns in his
proposals to switch to a v80 a
value-added tax based system to fund his
crazy idea of giving every man woman and
child one thousand dollars a month and
he claims he's not a libertarian now
look um okay let's break it down real
quick I'll give you a link below this
video to an article from accounting
today accounting today not it not a
publication I normally read a little bit
more objective approach than you got
from Forbes magazine or Bloomberg or
even NBC in my opinion they point out
first and foremost when the federal
government taxes a corporation it is not
on the basis of their revenue it is on
the basis of their profit so two hundred
and thirty two billion dollars in
revenue says about two hundred thirty
two billion in one year that's the
revenue however how much is the profit
ninety two point four billion now if you
present either one of those numbers in
isolation it just sounds like a lot of
money but guys the thought exercise here
is not that hard let me let me walk you
through this let's say you're ten years
old and you get together with some
friends and you decide you're gonna rake
the leaves for all the elderly people in
the neighborhood you're gonna go around
and clear up their gardens and rake the
leaves and this house pays twenty
dollars in this post pays twenty dollars
maybe one as a small yard and they pay
ten dollars and all the money comes
together and you do this you have a long
day's work doing yard work say hey great
news the total amount of revenue total
amount of money we made was two hundred
and thirty two dollars but I got bad
news do you know how much profit we made
only nine dollars only nine dollars and
forty cents
think about how disappoint you bees whoa
gee we had all these costs with all
these expenses we only we only get to
keep but only made nine dollars in
profit I had two or three fields okay so
these numbers they're big but it's not
that mystifying 232 billion in revenue
but only nine point four billion in
profit it's pretty dramatic difference
okay now what many of the articles
emphasize not the Accounting Today
article is that there's also a huge
amount of money being paid in payroll
taxes by Amazon so we're not here
talking about the employees paying
income tax that's even more money but
the the taxes that are paid state level
and payroll taxes by the company that is
apparently over 1 billion dollars a year
so there are some taxes that Amazon is
paying that adds up to a lot of money ok
but more fundamentally why is it that
Amazon is paying zero in the special
category of federal corporate tax why is
that a zero number it's because they're
doing exactly what the US government
wants to incentivize them to do okay for
a long time there's been a critique of
capitalism within the United States that
companies do not put enough money into
research and development companies do
not put enough money into job training
and companies do not put enough money
into productivity increasing capital
investments like robots like replacing
Yumi's roads
so one way or another because that's
what the US government wants to
encourage companies to do they give you
tax breaks when you run your business in
the kind of way that the federal
government is encouraging so guess what
Amazon spends a huge amount of money on
research and development okay so that is
419 million US dollars in tax breaks
they earned it they earned it the US
government held up a hope and say if you
jump through this hoop if you run your
business the way we want you to we're
gonna give you 419 million dollars in
tax breaks because we
the democratically elected government we
believe it's in everyone's benefit in
society if you put this money into
research and development that ultimately
indirectly won't just make your company
more competitive it actually benefits
society as well you're actually doing
the sort of job that otherwise
universities have to do or the
government has to pay for research you
know research and development to do
what's normally called fundamental
research right okay they said this is a
good thing that benefits everyone to
fight the new tool so you get a tax
break okay um I know a lot of the time
there are local laws it's a general
crisis of having no upward mobility but
a lot of the time you also see tax
breaks and tax write-offs are doing job
training so that people can go from
being unskilled workers to more highly
skilled workers why is that again it's
because if if the company doesn't
provide job training then that would
have to happen at a university there'd
be other costs for society so yeah
Amazon is playing the game by the rules
set down by the US government yes they
are getting a deduction for stock based
compensation which basically means
giving people bonuses in the form of
stock rather than cash that saves them
1.1 billion dollars they didn't invent
the rule why does that rule exist why
does the US government think that's
advantageous to give bonuses in stock
rather I don't know but again the
government held up this loop Amazon
jumped through it fair and square
they're not cheating so you know if you
support Bernie Sanders you probably
support Bernie Sanders because he
promises you a better future he promises
you a future with lower cost of tuition
with higher quality of health care he's
promising you a future that's committed
to dramatically reducing military
spending and dramatically increasing the
spending on you know things that will
possibly or hopefully improve the
quality of life for Americans right
that's that's what you're signing up for
okay don't live a lie when people lie to
you when people expect you to
participate in repeating these lies
which I hear are left
doing news services I hear this from the
young turks day after day after day
again and again this lie of an Amazon I
heard it from Andrew yang at the
Democrat presidential primary debates
he's saying this on the news who saying
this interviews again and again and
again if you're promising people a
better future you have to learn how to
make that promise and how to propel that
promise without having it rest on a lie